Alright, picking it up where we left off.
We wanna convert these cart items that we have here
to legitimate order items.
So, we're going to actually make an array
of order items.
I'll do this.
So the const orderItems is equal to.
I wanna take the user's cart
and we're gonna map over each of the cart items
in the user's cart.
So, we'll say cartItem
and for each one, we're just gonna return
let's call an orderItem.
So, we'll give ourselves a block here.
And we need to do a little bit of work inside of here.
So, first we'll say const orderItem,
so this is a singular version,
is equal to an object.
And then inside of that object, we need.
Well, let's just take a quick look
at our data model real quick.
Our order item needs, we don't need to give it ID.
That will be created.
It needs a title, description, image, large image, price.
All of those things come from the item
but we also need a quantity and a user
which is not coming from the item
that it's being pulled off of.
So say quantity.
And that is coming from the cartItem.quantity.
And then the user, we'll just going to relate it
to the currently logged in user.
So say user, connect to where the ID
is equal to the user ID.
And that was queried right here.
You can either just use the user ID or use the users.ID
that we created from the database.
Then we just need to take all of the fields
that are on the item and take a sort o' copy, paste.
Not do a relationship, we talked about that earlier.
We don't wanna get into a relationship here.
We just wanna take a copy of every single field
and because it is a one level field,
we can just do ...cartItem
and what that will do,
is it will take a copy of every single field.
And let me show you real quick, a side example of how
this actually works.
So if I have a const wes name is equal to wes,
and if I were to make a new wes,
const wes2 is equal to wes.
If I were to change wes2's name to Wesley,
then wes is also updated and that's not what we want
because that's just a reference to the actual object.
We actually wanna take a copy of all the fields.
So what we can do is
we can say const wes3 is equal to ...wes.
Now, wes3 has the name of Wesley
but if were change the name to westerhoff,
then wes is still Wesley but wes3 is westerhoff.
So, by spreading using an object spread,
that's a cheap way to do a top level copy
of all of the fields
and that's exactly what we're doing right here.
A little bit of down side to that is
we're actually gonna be copying the ID of the cart item
which is not what we want.
So we'll delete that.
We'll delete the orderItem.Id
and then we'll just return the orderItem from this map
so that will take a copy of all of the fields,
add the quantity, connect the user, delete the ID
and return it.
And what we're gonna end up with is an array of order items
that have been disconnected from the actual item.
Step five is we actually wanna create the order.
So, we'll say const the order is equal to await
ctx.db.mutation.createorder.
And we wanna pass some data for the order
and that data's gonna have the total,
it's gonna have the charge.amount.
Remember that charge is coming back from stripe
and charge will have an amount on it.
So, charge.amount.
The charge field is gonna be the charge.id
and that's the actual kind o' transacted ID
if we ever need to pull back to stripe for any reason.
We can use that ID to reference the transaction.
The items that are inside of it,
so we are creating an order which is this,
has a relationship to an array of order items.
So we can simply here say the items
and then we use a create order items
and I love this about Prisma because, orderItems.
I love this about Prisma because
what we did here is we're creating one type here
which is an order, and then we are actually just passing it
an array of other items
and it's gonna create us.
If we have three cart items,
it's gonna convert all three of them
over to orderItems for us
and it does it all in one swoop
rather than us having to create them,
save them to the database, save the IDs,
and then pass them here,
it will just do it all in one go
and all in a single request.
So big fan of that.
Then we also wanna take the user
and connect the user where the ID is equal to the userId.
And I think that is in good shape.
We are awaiting it.
Number six, what we need to do is clean up the user's cart
and delete the cart items.
So say const cartItemIds is equal to user.cart.map
cartItem, cartItem.id
and then will give us an array of all of the IDs
that are currently in the user's cart
and then we can use that to delete all of them.
We'll say await ctx.db.mutation.deleteManyCartItems.
Ha ha!
And that's another beauty of Prisma.
It just gives you all of these really flexible queries
that come out of the box with it.
And we're gonna say where the ID is in the cart item IDs.
So what we did here is we got an array
of all of the cart items
that were in the user's cart
and then we ran this query that says delete it if
the ID is in the array of cart item IDs.
And then finally, we wanna to return the order to the client
so we say return order and that will fulfill,
this is the order that we create here,
and I believe that is it.
What we should then do on the client side is
be able to console log that order
and then we're actually gonna change the page.
So, in order to test that, let's go back to take my money
and this create order right here, we're just running it
but if we were to actually capture the result.
So say const order is equal to await,
then we'll change this onToken to async.
Then we can go down here
and just simply console.log the order
so we can get the information.
So, if everything went according to plan,
which it usually doesn't,
we should see the entire order
that has been created in our console.
We should also be able to go into Prisma and see.
So let's try this out ourselves.
I'm gonna give it a refresh so we don't have any issues.
We'll go into the cart, we'll check out.
Pay, da da da.
Cha ching.
Then it goes off to the backend and we get the token
and then what comes back up.
Bit of an error here.
V2 data got invalid value.
What did we do that was wrong?
Let's jump back to our database.
If you don't wanna show this ugly error to the user,
you could also go to the create order
and catch the error
and then when you catch it,
you can throw your own custom error
based on what happened there.
In this case, I'm just throwing it back to the user.
Keep it simple.
We got a bit of an error here though.
Let's take a look and see what it is.
Variable V data got invalid value.
Total.
Charge.
Items.
Field value.items.create.title was required
so it's saying that
when we created the cart item,
it's not getting the title of the item.
I see it.
It's 'cause I spread the cart item into here
and we need to spread the cart item.item, why?
Because if we look at our data model,
our cart item, or is it right here,
has a relationship to item
and the item is what actually has
the title, the description, the image, the large image,
the price, and the user on it.
So, if we spread not the cart item,
but the cart item's related item,
then that should work.
Wha wha, let's try it one more time.
Another error field.
Large image of required type string was not provided.
So, let's take a look at this error.
Make this a little bit bigger.
Now it's telling us that there's no large image.
Title, price, description, image.
Ah, I think I know what happened.
It's up here where we queried the user's cart
in for every item.
We queried the title, the price, the ID description,
the image but we did not query the large image
and therefore, it didn't have the data that it needs
in order to make it.
So, as great as GraphQL is, because is it so rigid,
this is the problem with it is if you forget a little thing,
it will error out on you which is a good thing
in the long run because
we don't wanna be making silly mistakes like that.
So, let's try that once more.
I bet it will work this time.
Check out.
Four two, do do do,
da da da.
Boom, it worked.
Let's take a look at the data we got here.
Gives us the charge, the ID, the total, no items
but if we check at our app.prisma.io.
Take a look at our SNPM fix
and look at our orders.
Open that up.
You'll see that our items haven't.
Only reason it's showing as null is 'cause we haven't
actually specifically queried any of the data in it
and then if we go take this one
and then end five, and go to your order item,
you'll see that these are the three order items
that I have then created.
That one I just said is a pair of shoes
and we have the image, the large image, the price,
the quantity, the title,
and the user that that order item was associated with.
However, got one more issue here.
Cannot read property item of undefined.
I bet it has to do with something,
if we open up our,
not our cart.
It's telling us it cannot read item of undefined.
So, we search for .item.
That's nowhere in our cart
but it's telling us it's in take my money.
So, we search for .item.
Ahh, you know what?
It's because our cart is now empty
and we're assuming there's a cart item.
So we can add another one here that says
me.cart.lenght
that checks if there's an actual length
and I will bet that'll fix it.
There we go 'cause our cart is now empty.
So just add that check to see
if there's even any items in the cart.
Then check if there's an item in the cart.
And then check if there's an image in the cart.
So, there's coming to JavaScript soon
that will allow us to do this deep check
so we don't have to do, keep checking every level deep.
But now our cart is empty.
Looks like all of the data
is properly being stored in our database.
There's one last issue that we're getting here
and that is when the cart is totally empty,
we still have this checkout button
and then it's gonna complain to us that
we failed prop types because there's no image,
there's no number, and all these things aren't being
passed to the prop type
and that's because we should not be rendering out
this checkout button unless there's actually something
in the user's cart.
So a quick solution to that is we can go to our cart.js,
and we can go above the take my money
and we can just simply say if me.cart.length,
if it is anything other than zero,
it will be truthy then we can just return
this take my money button and that should solve it for us.
Open it up, there's nothing in the cart showing up,
but if I were to add something to my cart,
you see that that cart button immediately starts showing up
and I can go ahead and use it.
In the next video, what we're gonna do is
actually get to displaying single orders
so as soon as somebody actually comes back with an order,
we should display that order on the page
and then we should also have another page
that shows us all of the user's orders.